# Status Codes Based On REST Methods

### In your own words, describe what each group of status code represents:

* 100’s = These are informational status codes; they usually tell the client that the header part of the request has been received and the server will try to comply with a transmission demand of the client. 

* 200’s = These are the success codes. They tell the client that its request was accepted.

* 300’s = These are redirection codes. They tell the client that the resource they are requesting isn’t available at the expected location anymore.

* 400’s = These are the client error codes. They are all about invalid requests a client sent to a server.

* 500’s = These are the server error codes. Often they indicate problems with overwhelmed servers or unreachable servers behind proxies, but sometimes they can be directly related to client requests that trigger error exceptions on the server.

### What is a status code 202?

n case of asynchronous processing of a request (202), this doesn’t mean the request was successfully processed only that it met all validation requirements at the time of sending.

Often used for asynchronous processing. This code tells the client that the request was valid, but its processing will finish sometime in the future. The response body should include an URL to the finished resource with some information about when it will be available, or an URL to some monitoring endpoint that tells the client when the resource is available.

### What is a status code 308?

Like the 202 code but using a Location header field in response to informing the client about the location of the created resource or an endpoint that lets the client check for the status of the creation process. Some clients follow the status codes of the Redirect-class automatically. This code is usually only used for POST requests

### What code would you use if an update didn’t return data to a client?

204 No Content - A proper code for updates that don’t return data to the client, for example when just saving a currently edited document.

### What code would you use if a resource used to exist but no longer does?

410 Gone - This is like 404 but we know that the resource existed in the past, but it got deleted or somehow moved, and we don’t know where.

### What is the ‘Forbidden’ status code?

403 Forbidden - The client has authorized or doesn’t need to authorize itself, but still has no permissions to access the resource.

For more info about Status Codes Based On REST Methods visit this link
[info link](https://www.moesif.com/blog/technical/api-design/Which-HTTP-Status-Code-To-Use-For-Every-CRUD-App/)