# React Docs - Thinking in React

### What is the single responsibility principle and how does it apply to components?

Use the same techniques for deciding if you should create a new function or object. One such technique is **the single responsibility principle**, that is, a component should ideally only do one thing. If it ends up growing, it should be decomposed into smaller subcomponents.

### What does it mean to build a ‘static’ version of your application?

**static version:** renders your data model, you’ll want to build components that reuse other components and pass data using props. props are a way of passing data from parent to child. If you’re familiar with the concept of state, don’t use state at all to build this static version. State is reserved only for interactivity, that is, data that changes over time. Since this is a static version of the app, you don’t need it.

### What are the three questions you can ask to determine if something is state?

1- Is it passed in from a parent via props? If so, it probably isn’t state.
2- Does it remain unchanged over time? If so, it probably isn’t state.
3- Can you compute it based on any other state or props in your component? If so, it isn’t state.

### How can you identify where state needs to live?

For each piece of state in your application:

* Identify every component that renders something based on that state.
* Find a common owner component (a single component above all the components that need the state in the hierarchy).
* Either the common owner or another component higher up in the hierarchy should own the state.
* If you can’t find a component where it makes sense to own the state, create a new component solely for holding the state and add it somewhere in the hierarchy above the common owner component.

For more info about The React Docs visit this link
[info link](https://reactjs.org/docs/thinking-in-react.html)

# Higher-Order Functions

### What is a “higher-order function”?

**higher-order function:** is a function that does at least one of the following:

* takes one or more functions as arguments (i.e. procedural parameters),
* returns a function as its result.

### Explain how either map or reduce operates, with regards to higher-order functions.

The map method transforms an array by applying a function to all of its elements and building a new array from the returned values. The new array will have the same length as the input array, but its content will have been mapped to a new form by the function.

with reduce operates we take for the parameters the array , combining function and starting value. the standard array method reduce, which corresponds this function, has a convenience that if our array contains at least one element we are allowed to leave off start argument the method will take the first element of the array as its start value and start reducing at the second element.

For more info about The Higher-Order Functions visit this link
[info link](https://eloquentjavascript.net/05_higher_order.html#h_xxCc98lOBK)