# An Introduction to Node.js

### What is node.js?

**Node.js:** is an event-based, non-blocking, asynchronous I/O runtime that uses Google’s V8 JavaScript engine and libuv library.

### In your own words, what is Chrome’s V8 JavaScript Engine?

**The V8 engine:** is the open-source JavaScript engine that runs in Google Chrome and other Chromium-based web browsers, including Brave, Opera, and Vivaldi. It was designed with performance in mind and is responsible for compiling JavaScript directly to native machine code that your computer can execute.

### What does it mean that node is a JavaScript runtime?

This means that Node.js is a program we can use to execute JavaScript on our computers.

### What is npm?

**npm:** is a package manager that comes bundled with Node.

### What version of node are you running on your machine?

v14.17.3

### What version of npm are you running on your machine?

v6.14.13

### What command would you type to install a library/package called ‘jshint’?

npm install -g jshint

### What is node used for?

if you want to start developing apps with any modern JavaScript framework (for example, React or Angular), you’ll be expected to have a working knowledge of Node and npm. This isn’t because you need a Node back end to run these frameworks. You don’t. Rather, it’s because these frameworks (and many, many related packages) are all available via npm and rely on Node to create a sensible development environment in which they can run.

For more info about The Node.js visit this link
[info link](https://www.sitepoint.com/an-introduction-to-node-js/)

# 6 Reasons for Pair Programming

### What are the 6 reasons for pair programming?

1. Greater efficiency
2. Engaged collaboration
3. Learning from fellow students
4. Social skills
5. Job interview readiness
6. Work environment readiness

### In your experience, which of these reasons have you found most beneficial?

Greater efficiency

### How does pair programming work?

pair programming commonly involves two roles: the Driver and the Navigator. The Driver is the programmer who is typing and the only one whose hands are on the keyboard. Handling the “mechanics” of coding, the Driver manages the text editor, switching files, version control, and—of course writing—code. The Navigator uses their words to guide the Driver but does not provide any direct input to the computer. The Navigator thinks about the big picture, what comes next, how an algorithm might be converted in to code, while scanning for typos or bugs. The Navigator might also utilize their computer as a second screen to look up solutions and documentation, but should not be writing any code.

For more info about Pair Programming visit this link
[info link](https://www.codefellows.org/blog/6-reasons-for-pair-programming/)