# React Docs - Forms

### What is a ‘Controlled Component’?

**“controlled component”:** isAn input form element whose value is controlled by React in this way is called a 

### Should we wait to store the users responses from the form into state when they submit the form OR should we update the state with their responses as soon as they enter them? Why.

&lt;form>

  &lt;label>

    Name:

    <input type="text" name="name" />

  &lt;/label>

  &lt;input type="submit" value="Submit" />

&lt;/form>

This form has the default HTML form behavior of browsing to a new page when the user submits the form. If you want this behavior in React, it just works. But in most cases, it’s convenient to have a JavaScript function that handles the submission of the form and has access to the data that the user entered into the form. The standard way to achieve this is with a technique called “controlled components”.

### How do we target what the user is entering if we have an event handler on an input field?

When you need to handle multiple controlled input elements, you can add a name attribute to each element and let the handler function choose what to do based on the value of event.target.name.

For more info about React Docs - Forms visit this link
[info link](https://reactjs.org/docs/forms.html)

# The Conditional (Ternary) Operator Explained

### Why would we use a ternary operator?

The ternary operator greatly increases the conciseness of your code. When it is formatted correctly it can also be very easy to read and, dare I say it, even easier then if-else statements.

There seems to be some controversy over when to use the Ternary Operator and when to use If-Else statements. Some will say that the Ternary Operator should only be used for simple variable assignments, like shown in example 1. Some say that if the ternary operator get’s to complex (nested) then it is far better to use an if else statement. I beg to differ – with good formatting, the ternary operator beats the if-else statement every time.

Take the following examples (inspired by this post on stackoverflow). The first example shows the traditional if-else statement and takes up 16 lines of code. The second shows a poorly formatted nested ternary statement that takes up 8 lines of code (cuts lines in half). The third example shows a properly formatted nested ternary statement that takes up 5 lines of code including an explanatory comment.

If-Else

//is this a leap year? - If-else

if(($year % 400) == 0)

{

   $isLeapYear=1;

}

elseif(($year % 100) == 0)
{

   $isLeapYear=0;

}

elseif(($year % 4) == 0)

{

   $isLeapYear=1;

}

else

{

   $isLeapYear=0;

} //if

Ternary Operator – Poorly Formatted

//is this year a leap year? - Ternary (bad formatting)

$isLeapYear =

   (($year % 400) == 0)

   ? 1

   : ((($year % 100) == 0)

      ? 0

      : ((($year % 4) == 0)

         ? 1

         : 0));
Ternary Operator – Properly Formatted

//is this year a leap year?

//--------------test expression-----result

$isLeapYear = (($year % 400) == 0) ? 1 :

              ((($year % 100) == 0)? 0 :

              ((($year % 4) == 0)  ? 1 :

                                     0));//default result

Though the if-else statement is more common and familiar, in my opinion, the ternary operator produces a far more readable and concise result.

For more info about The Conditional (Ternary) Operator Explained visit this link
[info link](https://codeburst.io/javascript-the-conditional-ternary-operator-explained-cac7218beeff)

[info link](http://www.dnawebagency.com/ternary-operator/)