# How I explained REST to my brother
## This is a lightly edited version of an article by Ryan Tomayko (original no longer online). Used with permission


1- Who is Roy Fielding?

Roy T. Fielding, Senior Principal Scientist at Adobe, is known for his pioneering work on the World Wide Web, open source, and software architecture. He wrote the standards for HTTP/1.x and URI, has been a contributor to many other Web technologies, and defined the REST architectural style. Dr. Fielding is a founder of the Apache HTTP Server Project, Chairman of the Apache Software Foundation, member of the ASF board of directors, and author of the Apache License 2.0. He has been honored with the ACM Software System Award, ACM SIGSOFT Impact Paper Award, OSCON 2000 Appaloosa Award for Vision, ICSE Most Influential Paper, and MIT Technology Review's first TR100. Dr. Fielding received his Ph.D. in Information and Computer Science from the University of California, Irvine.

2- Why don’t the techniques that we use today work well when we need to be able to talk to all of the machines in the world?

Because they weren't designed to be used like that. When Fielding and his colleagues started building the web, being able to talk to any machine anywhere in the world was a primary concern. But most of the techniques developers later used to get computers to talk to each other didn't have those requirements. You just needed to talk to a small group of machines.

3- What is the HTTP protocol that Fielding and his friends created?

is all about applying verbs to nouns. For instance, when you go to a web page, the browser does an HTTP GET on the URL you typed in and back comes a web page.

Web pages usually have images, Those are separate resources. The web page just specifies the URLs to the images and the browser goes and does more GETs using the HTTP protocol on them until all the resources are obtained and the web page is displayed. But the important thing here is that very different kinds of nouns can be treated the same. Whether the noun is an image, text, video, an mp3, a slideshow, whatever. I can GET all of those things the same way given a URL.

4- What does a GET do?

 Each of the systems would retrieve information from each other using a simple HTTP GET

5- What does a POST do?

If one system needs to add something to another system, it would use an HTTP verb of POST.

6- What does PUT do?

If a system wants to replace something in another system, it uses an HTTP verb of PUT

7- What does PATCH do?

to do a partial update, it'll hopefully use PATCH

For more info about this article visit this link
[info link](https://gist.github.com/brookr/5977550)